Given 5 players on court, find percentage chance of what's going to happen

                Ignore opponent for now - can be added in later

               

               

How do you do this? Don't worry about code for now - this is more of a statistics question

                Obviously, there are some simple ways to do this (like just adding USG and adjusting proportional so that total = 100% or whatever)

                                This may be a good starting point, just to get something up and working

               

                More complex may include looking at ball-handling duties, and seeing if different players will have different rates of giving up usage based on other players on the floor

                                Some point guards probably jack up the same # of shots regardless of teammates (Russell Westbrook, etc.)

               

                                This could also be done by play type, as some play types (catch-and-shoot, etc.) are dependent of teammate actions

                               

                               

                               

                More and more complexity can be added from this starting point

                                1. Opponents

                                2. Game state

                                                - Which can include all sorts of stuff beyond score/time/home-away, including player time on court, player fouls, etc.

                                3. More advanced analysis of past tendencies

                                                - List here is endless

                                4. Stuff outside the game

                                                - Travel being the most obvious

                                               

                                               

                                               

               

                All of these improvements should only be implemented with backtesting/out-of-sample confirmation

                                Basically, implementing the change should produce more accurate estimates, whether that be point spreads or individual player stats

                                This full backtesting may be difficult to do for a while, so the first couple improvements can stay with theoretical backing even if they don't improve estimates              

                                                A correct change could actually hurt estimates in the beginning if the rest of the model is terrible

                                               

                                **There's two aspects of this (dubbed 'player' and 'coach' in the Hbob ESPN article) that I should be able to backtest**

                                                The 'player' should look at lineup vs lineup. So take a 5-man lineup and simulate it against a bunch of other 5-man lineups and check that the stats look good

                                                The 'coach' aspect should implement rotations as well

                                               

                                               

                                Another option is to run regressions (Find player USG based on a ton of factors, for example), but I wonder if sample sizes are too small or if there is a risk of data-mining here?

                                                Could do for player on possession-by-possession basis?

                                                Then, could look at if the coefficients for each factor are consistent across players, or if they are consistent across a subset of players with something in common (position/age/etc.)
												
												
		
		
Questions from a code perspective:
	When will I need to reach into database?
		1. When initializing players?
			Just in a player's constructor, right?
			call setAdvStats()
		2. When initializing lineups?
		-- It will only be one of the above two that are needed, depending on how sophisticated the code gets.
		-- I can initially start with players then just transfer that code over to lineups when I start handling simulation based on lineups
		
		
So, plan is to move where the database calls come from, depending on how sophisticated the code gets:
	1. First, it will just be one simple function when a player is initialized
	2. Next, it will be a call for an entire lineup, and player initialization will consist of almost nothing
		-- Or, player initialization will still do something and lineup information will make adjustments to that...
	3. Third, it will incorporate both lineups (team & opponent), so database code will be moved 'up' to an 'onCourtPlayers' object which holds two lineups 
	4. Fourth, it will incorporate game state, moving code up once again to a 'game' or 'gameState' object
	5. Fifth, it will incorporate coaches, which will just be an addition to the 'game' or 'gameState' object
	6. Other additions will come, all of which will be added to the 'game'/'gameState' object 
	
Figuring out the totals/stats by lineup will similarly move 'up' levels
	1. When info is pulled per player, lineup stat breakdowns will be constructed at the 'lineup' object level
	2. Next, when lineup interaction effects are taken into account, we will just modify the code at the lineup level
	3. Next, when team and opponent lineups are involved, we will move up a level and determine stats at the 'onCourtPlayers' level
	4. Finally, it will move up to where everything is done at the 'gameState' level 
	
	
	

		